
<h2> Introduction to stocks</h2>

A stock exchange, or stock market, is a system for buying and selling securities, or stocks and bonds. 
A stock is a share in the ownership of a company. 
A bond is an agreement to lend money to a company for a certain amount of time. 
Companies sell securities to people to get the money they need to grow. 
People buy securities as investments, or ways of possibly earning money.

Many countries have one or more stock exchanges. 
Some important exchanges are the New York Stock Exchange (in the United States), the London Stock Exchange (in England), and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (in Japan). 
These and other exchanges do much of their business in buildings. NASDAQ, in the United States, is an exchange that does its business electronically, or online.

<h2> How a stock exchange works! </h2>

A number of companies belong to each stock exchange. 
The companies sell securities to people. 
People then use the exchange to trade (sell and buy) the securities among themselves. 
The exchange lists the securities for sale and their prices. 
It also handles the transfer of securities between sellers and buyers.

The prices of different securities rise or fall, or both, throughout the day, every day the exchange is open. 
People make money by selling securities at a higher price than they paid for them.

<h2> Rising and falling prices </h2>

Many factors affect the price of the securities of a company. 
If a company is successful, the price of its stock usually will go up. 
The health of the economy, laws passed by the government, and wars also can cause securities’ prices to rise or fall.

Even the feelings of people can affect prices at a stock exchange. 
For example, if people fear that prices will go down, they may start selling their securities. 
But if many people sell large numbers of securities, they can actually make prices go down. 
If widespread selling continues, a stock market crash can happen. 
A crash means that the prices have fallen so low that very few people are willing to buy securities. 
As a result, the people who own the securities have little chance of getting their money back.